>> In this video, Jana Schaich
will show you how to use his tool,
ERDPlus to make a relational schema.
If you need a reminder about how
the general structure of the ERDPlus
website is organized,
please refer to the last video that
has a demonstration about how to
use ERDPlus to make ER diagrams.
And now, here's an ad.
>> This video demonstrates how to use
ERDPlus to create a relational scheme out.
Once you're logged into your ERDPlus
account, go to the Diagram section.
Before we demonstrate how to create a
sample relational scheme up, first, let's
take a look at the previously created ER
Diagram that we will use as the basis for
the sample relational scheme up.
Keep this ER Diagram in mind as we now
go and create a relational schema.
Click on New, select Relational Schema,
click on the name of
the New Relational Schema and
now you are in a drawing surface for
creating relational skills.
We start by creating the first stable.
This stable is named location.
First column of this table is LID.
The next column is L main.
We will declare a primary key
of this stable by clicking on
the Primary Key button and
we will choose LID as the primary key.
The next table is called Project.
Let's start creating columns, PID.
Pete name.
People project would
also have a foreign key.
LID, referencing the primary
key LID off the location table.
To create a foreign key, click on Connect,
click on the table that
provides the foreign key.
Hold the left-click down and drag to
the table that gets the foreign key.
This creates a foreign key.
Now let's create a primary key of
the project table by clicking on
the primary key button and choosing PID.
In ERDPlus, you can change
the order of columns easily.
Let's move the LID column one spot up.
Now, lets move the LID
column one spot down.
The next table we will create
is the table employee.
The columns are EID and e-name.
Primary key is the EID column.
The final table of this relational schema
is a bridge table works on resulting
the many-to-many relationship between
employee and project entities.
Click on the table, name it works on and
now we have add two foreign
keys to this table.
One coming from table employee and
one coming from the table project.
Click on Connect and
creates two foreign keys.
In addition, this table has
another column, number of hours.
This column indicates how many hours
each employee worked, on each project.
We will not declare
the primary key of this table.
The primary key is a composite
key composed of EID and PID.
Our sample relational
schema is now created.
It is also already saved in the diagram
section of your ERDPlus account.
In addition,
by clicking on the Diagram and clicking on
Export Diagram File, you can save
the same diagram on to your computer.
Also, you can save the image of
the diagram by clicking on Export Image.
Saving the image allows
you later to copy and
paste it in to PowerPoint,
Word or any other application.
This concludes the small demonstration of
how to create sample relational schema and
the resulting relational
database using ERDPlus.